can you touch your toes can you put your
palms on the ground can you hug your
legs well if you answered no i got some
stretches for you come this way
literally all you need is a wall
check this out all you do is lay down
and stick your legs up in the air
and you straighten your legs
it's okay only go as far as you can feel
the stretch so if you have to start out
here or even out here or maybe here
who knows where you have to start
probably somewhere right here but
instead of getting closer to the wall
focus on bringing your tailbone down to
the floor almost by arching your low
back but keep your ribs down
try that and also after 30 seconds of
this 30 seconds of this then 30 seconds
of this and if you can why not do a full
split
wait you can't do a full split
next video
have you ever tried to do the middle
splits and we're never able to
well here's how you can get into it but
in order to get your middle splits you
need to stretch more than just your
inner thighs you also need to stretch
your hamstrings and your hip flexors
but by far the best way to get a skill
is to just keep attempting it in a way
that is not painful
so all you have to do is lower yourself
into it just like that and hold
but what if your shoulders aren't strong
enough
i have a solution for you check this out
basically all you do
is use a wall
lean all the way out with your feet up
against it
and scoot yourself back up against the
wall spreading your legs just like this
and after a little while of this you can
scoot forward
and forward and this is an easier more
relaxing way to stretch your splits and
maybe i'll drop a stretching routine
and split
yo
does your hip ever randomly pop
maybe it pops all the time
well i've got some stretches to help
there are three main ligaments that keep
your hip joint connected to your pelvis
and when the muscles around them get
tight
annoying or uncomfortable things can
happen like snapping and popping so the
solution is to stretch the muscles
around your hip
by doing this right here you're
stretching your hip flexors keep your
knee right over your ankle and stretch
the other leg behind you with your toes
pointed out
hold that for 30 seconds on both sides
even if it's just the one side that's
popping this one right here also helps a
lot cross the ankle over the knee and
pull the leg inward towards the chest
and you'll feel a stretch in your side
glute area
after doing that for 30 seconds for both
poses you should feel better but if you
have any excessive popping or snapping
go see somebody who can help you with it
can you touch your toes can you bring
your toes up with you can you do the
splits
well if not
i've got two stretches just for you
the two muscles you need to stretch the
most for your splits are your hamstrings
and your hip flexors we learned how to
stretch our hamstrings up against a wall
last time but this time we're gonna do
them both separately so instead of
reaching for your toes keep your back
flat as possible and you might start
here here or here it doesn't matter
where you start it just matters that you
do start step one further forward and
lean to it you can also tilt your pelvis
back
or bend the leg and tilt the other way
this stretches different parts of your
hamstring and then to stretch your hip
flexors just put your knee on the ground
and have your other knee over your ankle
hold these stretches for 30 seconds or
up to a minute and for best results pair
it with dynamic stretches do you know
any dynamic stretches
i got you next video we're all somewhere
along our journey to get to our splits
but did you know dynamic stretches also
help to get your splits
how do you do dynamic stretches
well i'll show you check this out
dynamic stretches are super cool because
instead of sitting holding a stretch for
a really long time and getting bored
you're actually going to be moving so
find a wall to balance against and kick
your leg forward just like that and you
can also reach for your toe you might
not be able to start kicking this high
you might be somewhere down here
it doesn't matter where you start it
just matters that you do start
you can also
lean up against the wall like this and
kick out behind you
but be careful because you don't want
your foot to slip out from under you
this is really helpful for warming up
the muscles and i recommend doing it
before you do your static stretches how
often should you stretch
to unlock mobility faster you need to
stretch every day
or every other day but i maintain my
flexibility by just stretching every
three days or so stretching is not a
warm-up in fact studies show that
stretching before you workout can
actually lead to decreased athletic
ability so you should stretch at the end
of your workout so you don't have
decreased athletic ability and your
muscles are warm enough that you're less
likely to injure yourself and the
stretching becomes way more effective so
to maximize your strength or hypertrophy
gains warm up with some cardio or some
light weights and next i'll teach you
the most effective way i have found to
stretch
if you stretch into pain your body's
natural reaction is to contract your
muscles and not get more flexible which
is not what you want if it's so
uncomfortable that you have a hard time
holding it for more than 10 seconds or
you have to bounce you've gone too far
but listen to your body
do you stretch before you work out
you shouldn't
static stretching can actually decrease
your athletic performance did you know
that
but the same does not hold true for
dynamic stretching it's a great way to
warm up and stretch at the same time so
here's how you do it
well if you're going to be working legs
focus on those hamstrings with kicks
forward and you can also do kicks back
you might want to balance on something
though
that's your hip flexors and your
hamstrings taken care of you can also do
your adductors by kicking out to the
side basically flailing around like an
idiot will help you out a lot and most
people have seen michael phelps doing
his weird back slaps
yes
dynamic stretch for the shoulders
but if you do plan on stretching to
increase your flexibility make sure you
do it at the end of your workout good
luck everybody
how flexible are you here are the top
five athletic standards of flexibility
number one deep squat can you touch your
hamstrings to your calves without
falling over number two
can you touch your toes while keeping
your knees all the way
straight and number three
can you touch your fingers behind your
back on both sides
number four
hip mobility find a surface that's near
your hip height put your ankle on and
see if you can get your knee to lay flat
this one's a little bit higher than hip
but it just makes it harder both sides
and number five all you need is a wall
with your back against a wall like this
see if you can get your elbows and your
wrists to touch the wall all the way
above you without letting your ribs
stick out like this it's easy to do it
like that so you keep your ribs all the
way back connected to the wall and touch
those elbows and those wrists
those are the top five athletic
standards of flexibility that i use to
test people's flexibility how many did
you get and hey remember that just
attempting any one of these is great
flexibility training get to it let's get
flexi y'all
can you do a deep squat can you do it
wide can you do it narrow if you can't
do one or more of these i've got tips
just for you
i am not a single percent asian and not
a single percent slavic
so this is only up to training and
lifestyle there are three ingredients to
the deep squat ankle mobility knee
mobility and hip mobility today we're
focusing on the ankle
for good ankle mobility you need to work
on tibialis or shin strength and
gastrocnemius or calf flexibility all
you need is a wall just step your toes
against the wall and press down and
you'll feel that stretch along the top
part of your calf and for the
strengthening of the shins all you got
to do is lean up against the wall and
lift your toes in the air the further
away your feet are the more difficult it
is and do about 10 reps
next video we're focusing on hip
mobility the second secret to deep squat
mobility
is hip mobility let's get started
there's actually two different types of
hip mobility
hip mobility in the glutes like this and
hip mobility in the hip flexor like this
today we're focusing on the glutes for
our deep squat all you need is the floor
you thought i was gonna say wall go
ahead and lay down cross your ankle over
your knee
grab your leg and pull it in closer
toward your face you should feel the
stretch right here or alternatively
you can do the same thing while sitting
in a chair and achieve the same results
and the best way to stretch is to hold
your pose for at least 30 seconds up to
45 seconds and do it multiple times just
like sets and reps here's a fun way to
test your hip mobility just open your
knees about a little wider than shoulder
width keep your back flat and see how
far forward you can go you will be able
to see your progress track more and more
and more every single day good luck
and next video will cover the knee
flexibility
can you hold your deep squat without
knee pain well here's the final secret
to your deep squat gains rolling
transition
if you want the rolling transition hat
the link is in the bio however knee
strength and mobility are super super
important to the pain free deep squat so
how do we get there let's start with
strength all you need is something to
keep your heels elevated up off of the
ground so your knees can go further past
your toes and you just do body weight
squats with time you can also add weight
onto it the important thing is for you
to get comfortable with your knees past
your toes check out knees over toes guy
super dope stuff if you don't have any
weights you can also progress to just
minor bends with just one leg
and why not progress to a full pistol
squat but knee mobility is just as
important as knee strength here's how we
train it one of the easiest ways to
train mobility is a really really
delicate split squat where you push your
knee forward over the past your toes
just like this and your goal is to get
your hamstring to touch your calf i like
to keep all these exercises at around 10
reps and keep it light enough that it's
comfortable to do all the way through
you shouldn't be going to failure and
eventually you'll build up the strength
to be able to get your knees to go all
the way down to the ground
and hopefully all the way back up
everybody should be able to fold in half
so let's talk about the hamstrings i've
already shown you the easiest possible
way to stretch your hamstrings using a
wall but
now it's time to kick it up a notch
introducing the what is this spicy
stretch all you have to do is find a
surface that is comfortable for you to
stretch on but remember
everybody's different
start where you have to stretch anywhere
in that area so once you get there all
you have to do is bring your foot across
your body
roll your ankle inward and then with
your opposite hand reach across your
body
why is it spicy
hold for 30 seconds on each side and if
you can hold that without discomfort i
don't believe you now that you've
stretched the outside of your hamstrings
next video will stretch the middle of
your hamstrings
can you fold in half like a book
the average human has this ability you
just have to unlock it so let's talk
hamstrings
i've already shown you the spicy outer
hamstring stretch so let's stretch the
middle of our hamstring and everybody
knows that you can reach toward your
toes but let's perfect your form
open your feet apart a little wider than
shoulder width keep the back flat and
lean forward but remember only go as far
forward as you can everybody's got to
start somewhere and only you know where
you need to start
after holding 20 seconds here go ahead
and round your back forward and hold 20
seconds here
and if you don't feel amazing after
doing that do it again and next video
we'll do inner thighs
most human bone structures allow us to
do the splits
but your muscles do have to catch up so
let's talk inner thighs
all you need is a wall just use the wall
to find a stretch that feels good for
you and you can also use this as an
opportunity to find out whether you like
your toes pointed up to the ceiling or
out to the side i prefer it this way but
everybody is different and the better
you get at this stretch the more
uncomfortable this becomes
and i don't like making out with walls
so you can graduate to this position
right here push yourself back and you
can hold this for at least 30 seconds
and you can actually do it multiple
times
take it slow start where you can and
next video we'll stretch our hip flexors
you actually do have time to stretch
here's two minutes it'll help
i'm filming this during my lunch break
at work so you truly do have the time to
stretch
right here is a hip flexor stretch 30
seconds right here
and then 30 seconds on the other side
that's a minute so far are you following
now for this you can use a chair at desk
a ledge it doesn't really matter
all you do is hold 30 seconds here
and then 30 seconds here
bam that's two minutes
[Music]